4       Filled with the Holy Ghost, Jesus returned from Jordan and was
led by the Spirit into the wilderness. For forty days He was tempted
by the devil. During this time He ate nothing and, when His fasting
ended, He was hungry.

The devil said to him, If thou be the Son of God, command this stone
to be made bread. Jesus answered, It is written: Man shall not live by
bread alone, but by every word of God.

The devil, then, took Him up into a high mountain and showed Him all
the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time. The devil said to Him,
I give thee the power and glory of all this that is mine and to
whomever I give it. If thou will worship me, all shall be thine. Jesus
said to him, Get thee behind me, Satan. It is written: Thou shall
worship the Lord thy God, and Him only shall thou serve.

The devil brought Him to Jerusalem, set Him on a pinnacle of the
temple and said, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down from
here. It is written: He shall give His angels charge over thee, to
keep thee, and, in their hands, they shall bear thee up lest at any
time thou dash thy foot against a stone. Jesus said, Thou shall not
tempt the Lord thy God.

When the devil had ended all the temptation, He departed from Him for
a season. Jesus returned to Galilee in the power of the Spirit. His
fame spread throughout all the region. He taught in the synagogues and
was glorified by all.

Jesus went to Nazareth, where He had been brought up. As was His
custom, He went into the synagogue on the sabbath day and stood up to
read. He was given the book of the prophet Esaias. When He opened the
book, He found the place where it was written: The Spirit of the Lord
is upon me, because He has anointed me to preach the gospel to the
poor; He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance
to the captives, recover sight to the blind, to set at liberty those
who are bruised, and to preach the acceptable year of the Lord.

He closed the book, returned it, and sat down. The eyes of all who
were in the synagogue were fastened on Him. Jesus said to them, This
day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears.

All bore Him witness and wondered at the gracious words which
proceeded from His mouth. They said, Is this not Joseph's son? He said
to them, Ye will surely say to me this proverb, Physician, heal
thyself. Whatsoever we have heard done in Capernaum, do also here in
thy country.

And He said, No prophet is accepted in his own country. But I tell
you, many widows were in Israel in the days of Elias, when the heaven
was shut up three years and six months, when great famine was
throughout all the land; but to none of them was Elias sent, except to
Sarepta, a city of Sidon, to a woman who was a widow. Many lepers were
in Israel in the time of Eliseus the prophet; and none of them was
cleansed, except Naaman the Syrian.

When they heard these things, all who were in the synagogue were
filled with wrath. They rose up and pushed Him out of the city. They
drove Him to the top of the hill upon which their city was built so
they might cast Him down headlong. But, passing through the midst of
them, He went His way.

Jesus went on to Capernaum in Galilee, and taught them on the sabbath
days. They were astonished at His doctrine for His word was powerful.
There was a man in the synagogue who had a spirit of an unclean devil
which cried out with a loud voice, Let us alone; what have we to do
with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? Art thou come to destroy us? I know
who thou art; the Holy One of God.

Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace, and come out of him. When
the devil had thrown him in the midst, he came out of him. The people
were amazed and said, What words are these! With authority and power
He commands the unclean spirits and they come out. His fame went out
into every corner of that country.

Jesus went out of the synagogue and entered Simon's house. Simon's
wife's mother had a serious fever and they besought Him to help her.
Jesus stood over her, rebuked the fever, and it left her. Immediately
she arose and ministered to them.

Now when the sun was setting, many who were sick with divers diseases
were brought to Him. He laid His hands on every one of them and healed
them. Devils came out of many, crying out, and saying, Thou art
Christ, the Son of God. Jesus rebuked and silenced them because they
knew that He was Christ.

When it was day, He left and went into a desert place. The people
looked for Him. When they found Him, they tried to prevent Him from
departing from them. But Jesus said to them, I must preach the kingdom
of God to other cities also. This is why I was sent. And He preached
in the synagogues of Galilee.

