1.       Forasmuch as many eyewitnesses and ministers of the word have
set forth and delivered to us a declaration of those things which are
most surely believed among us, it seemed good to me also, having had
perfect understanding of these things from the very beginning, to
write to you, most excellent Theophilus, in order that thou might know
the certainty of the things thou has been instructed.

In the days of Herod, the king of Judaea, there was a priest named
Zacharias, of the course of Abia. His wife was of the daughters of
Aaron, and her name was Elisabeth. They were both righteous before
God, walking blamelessly in all the commandments and ordinances of the
Lord. They had no child because Elisabeth was barren. They were both
well up in years.

According to the custom of the priest's office, his lot, while he
executed his duty before God, was to burn incense when he went into
the temple of the Lord. The multitude gathered outside to pray during
the time of incense.

There appeared to him an angel of the Lord standing on the right side
of the altar of incense. When Zacharias saw him, he was troubled and
fell down in fear. But the angel said to him, Fear not, Zacharias: for
thy prayer is heard. Thy wife, Elisabeth, shall bear thee a son and
thou shall name him John. You shall have joy and gladness and many
will rejoice at his birth. He shall be great in the sight of the Lord.
He shall not drink wine or strong drink; and he shall be filled with
the Holy Ghost, even from his mother's womb.

He shall turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord, their God.
He shall go in the spirit and power of Elias to turn the hearts of the
fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the
just; to make ready a people prepared for the Lord.

Zacharias said to the angel, How shall I know this? I am an old man,
and my wife an old woman. The angel said to him, I am Gabriel, who
stands in the presence of God; and am sent to speak to thee, and to
show thee these glad tidings. Behold, thou shall be dumb and unable to
speak until the day these things are performed because thou believe
not my words which shall be fulfilled in their season.

The people waited for Zacharias, and marvelled that he tarried so long
in the temple. When he came out, he could not speak to them. They
perceived that he had seen a vision in the temple for he beckoned to
them and remained speechless.

It came to pass, that, as soon as the days of his official duties were
accomplished, he went home. His wife, Elisabeth, conceived, and hid
herself for five months. She said, Thus has the Lord now done for me
that which takes away my reproach among others.

In the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of
Galilee, named Nazareth. The angel appeared to a virgin named Mary and
espoused to Joseph, of the house of David. He said to her, Hail, thou
that art highly favored. The Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women. When she saw him, she was troubled by his words.

Then the angel said to her, Fear not, Mary, for thou has found favor
with God. Thou shall conceive in thy womb, and bring forth a son, and
shall call His name Jesus. He shall be great and shall be called the
Son of the Highest. The Lord God shall give Him the throne of His
father David. He shall reign over the house of Jacob forever. And, of
His kingdom there shall be no end.

Then Mary said to the angel, How shall this be since I know not a man?
The angel answered, The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power
of the Highest shall overshadow thee so the holiness that is born of
thee shall be called the Son of God. And behold, thy cousin,
Elisabeth, has conceived a son in her old age. It is the sixth month
with her who was once thought barren. With God nothing is impossible.
Mary said, Behold, the handmaid of the Lord. Be it done according to
thy word. Then the angel departed from her.

Mary arose with haste and went to a city of Juda in the hill country.
Here she entered the house of Zacharias, and saluted Elisabeth. When
Elisabeth heard this salutation of Mary, the babe leaped in her womb
and Elisabeth was filled with the Holy Ghost. She spoke out with a
loud voice, Blessed art thou among women and blessed is the fruit of
thy womb. How is it that the mother of my Lord should come to me? As
soon as the voice of thy salutation sounded in my ears, the babe
leaped in my womb for joy. Blessed is she that believed for there
shall be a demonstration of those things which were told her by the
Lord.

Mary said, My soul does magnify the Lord, and my spirit has rejoiced
in God my Savior. He has regarded the low estate of His handmaiden
and, henceforth, all generations shall call me blessed. He that is
mighty has done great things to me. Holy is His name. His mercy is on
them that fear Him from generation to generation.

He has shown strength with His arm; He has scattered the proud in the
imagination of their hearts. He has put down the mighty from their
thrones, and exalted those of low degree. He has filled the hungry
with good things; and the rich He has sent away empty. He has helped
His servant Israel, in remembrance of His mercy; as He spoke to our
fathers, to Abraham, and to His seed forever.

Mary stayed with her cousin, Elisabeth about three months, then
returned to her own house. Elisabeth's time came that she should be
delivered; and she brought forth a son. Her neighbors and her cousins
heard how the Lord had showed great mercy on her; and they rejoiced
with her.

On the eighth day they came to circumcise the child. They called him
Zacharias after the name of his father. But his mother said, No. He
shall be called John. And they said to her, There is none of thy
kindred that is called by this name. Then they made signs to his
father asking how he would have him called. He asked for a writing
table, and wrote, His name is John. Then Zacharias' mouth was opened
immediately, his tongue loosed, and he spoke and praised God.

This news was carried throughout all the hill country of Judaea. All
who heard were filled with wonder at what kind of child this would be!
And the hand of the Lord was with him.

His father, Zacharias, was filled with the Holy Ghost and prophesied,
Blessed be the Lord, God of Israel; for He has visited and redeemed
His people, He has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house
of His servant, David; as He spoke by the mouth of His holy prophets,
which have been since the world began: That we should be saved from
our enemies, and from the hand of all that hate us; to perform the
mercy promised to our fathers, and to remember His holy covenant; the
oath which He swore to our father, Abraham, that He would grant us,
being delivered out of the hand of our enemies, to serve Him without
fear, in holiness and righteousness, all the days of our life.

And thou, child, shall be called the prophet of the Highest, for thou
shall go before the face of the Lord to prepare His ways; to give
knowledge of salvation to His people by the remission of their sins,
through the tender mercy of our God; whereby the dayspring from on
high has visited us to give light to those who sit in darkness and in
the shadow of death, to guide our feet in the way of peace.

The child grew and became strong in spirit. He was in the desert until
the day of his showing to Israel.

