5       As the people pressed upon Him to hear the word of God, He
stood by the lake of Gennesaret. He saw two ships standing by the
lake. The fishermen were gone out of them and were washing their nets.
He entered one of the ships, which was Simon's, and requested that he
thrust out a little from the land. Then He sat down and taught the
people from the ship.

When He finished speaking, He said to Simon, Launch out into the deep
and let down your nets. Simon said to Him, Master, we have toiled all
night and have taken nothing. Nevertheless, at thy word, I will let
down the net.

When he and his crew had this done, they enclosed a great multitude of
fish and their net broke. They beckoned to their partners, who were in
another ship, to come and help them. They came and filled both the
ships so full that they began to sink.

When Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees and said, Depart
from me; for I am a sinful man, O Lord. James and John, the sons of
Zebedee, who were partners with Simon, and all those who were with
them, were astonished at the great number of fish. Jesus said to
Simon, Fear not. From now on, thou shall catch men. When they landed
the fishing boats, they left everything and followed Him.

It came to pass, when He was in a certain city, a man, full of
leprosy, on seeing Jesus, fell before Him and said, Lord, if thou
will, thou can make me clean. Jesus stretched out His hand, touched
him, and said, I will. Be thou clean. Immediately the leprosy left the
man. Jesus then directed him to tell no one about this. He said, Go
and show thyself to the priest. Offer for thy cleansing, according to
Moses command, for a testimony to them.

Nonetheless, His fame was spread even more abroad. Great multitudes
gathered to hear and be healed of their infirmities by Him. Jesus
withdrew Himself into the wilderness to pray.

One day He was teaching and the power of the Lord to heal was upon
Him. There were gathered people that had come out of every town of
Galilee, and Judaea, and Jerusalem. Pharisees and doctors of the law
sat among them.

Men approached carrying a bed with a man who had a palsy. They looked
for a way to bring him in and lay him before Jesus. When they could
not find a way to bring him in because of the multitude, they went
upon the housetop and lowered him down on his couch through the tiling
and into the midst of where Jesus stood. When Jesus saw their faith,
He said, Son, thy sins are forgiven thee.

The scribes and the Pharisees began to question, saying, Who is this
who speaks blasphemies? Who can forgive sins, but God alone? When
Jesus perceived their thoughts, He said to them, Why question in your
hearts whether it is easier to say, Thy sins be forgiven thee; or, to
say, Rise up and walk? That ye may know that the Son of man has power
on earth to forgive sins, (He said to the sick man), Arise. Take up
thy couch and go to your home. Immediately he rose up before them,
took up that upon which he lay, and departed to his own house,
glorifying God. They were all amazed and glorified God, and were
filled with fear, saying, We have seen strange things today.

After these things, He went forth and saw a publican named Levi who
was sitting at the receipt of custom. He said to him, Follow me. And
he left all, rose up, and followed Him. Levi made Him a great feast in
his own house. There was a large company of publicans and others that
sat down with them.

The scribes and Pharisees murmured against His disciples, saying, Why
do ye eat and drink with publicans and sinners? Jesus answered and
said to them, Those who are whole do not need a physician; but they
that are sick do. I came not to call the righteous, but to call
sinners to repentance.

Then they said to Him, Why do the disciples of John fast often and
make prayers, and likewise the disciples of the Pharisees; but your
disciples eat and drink? Jesus said to them, Can ye make the children
of the bridechamber fast while the bridegroom is with them? The days
will come when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them. Then they
shall fast.

He spoke also a parable to them. No man puts a piece of a new garment
on an old one; if he does, the new makes a rent, and the piece that
was taken out of the new does not match the old. And no man puts new
wine into old bottles; else the new wine will burst the bottles, be
spilled, and the bottles shall perish. But new wine must be put into
new bottles; and both are preserved. No man, having drunk old wine,
straightway desires new, because he says, The old is better.

