2        A decree went out from Caesar Augustus. According to the
decree every man was to go to his own city to be taxed. Because he was
of the house and lineage of David, Joseph went up from Nazareth in
Galilee, to the city of Bethlehem in Judaea to be taxed. With him was
Mary, his espoused wife, who was great with child. While they were
there, the time came for her to be delivered. She brought forth her
firstborn son, wrapped Him in swaddling clothes, and laid Him in a
manger because there was no room for them in the inn.

In the same country shepherds were in the field keeping watch over
their flock by night. Lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them and the
glory of the Lord shone about them. They became afraid. And the angel
said to them, Fear not. Behold, I bring you good tidings which shall
be great joy to all people. A Savior, Christ the Lord, is born this
day in the city of David. Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling
clothes, lying in a manger. Then there also appeared a heavenly host
praising God. They said, Glory to God in the highest and, on earth,
peace and good will toward men.

The shepherds said, Let us go to Bethlehem and see what has come to
pass which the Lord has made known to us. They went with haste and
found Mary, and Joseph, and the babe lying in a manger.

When they saw, they made it known abroad what was told them concerning
this child. Those who heard, wondered at what they were told. But Mary
kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. The shepherds
returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had
heard and seen, as it was told to them.

When eight days were completed for the circumcising of the child, His
name was called Jesus, which was so named by the angel before He was
conceived in the womb. When the days of the purification according to
the law of Moses were accomplished, they brought Jesus to Jerusalem to
present Him to the Lord, as it is written in the law: Every male that
opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord. And, also according
to law of the Lord, they offered the sacrifice: a pair of turtledoves,
or two young pigeons.

There was a man in Jerusalem, named Simeon. He was a just and devout
man, waiting for the consolation of Israel. The Holy Ghost was upon
him and revealed to him that he should not see death before he had
seen the Lord's Christ.

He came by the Spirit into the temple. When the parents brought in the
child Jesus, Simeon took Him up in his arms, blessed God, and said,
Lord, now let thy servant depart in peace, according to thy word, for
my eyes have seen thy salvation which thou has prepared before the
face of all people; a light to lighten the Gentiles, and the glory of
thy people, Israel.

Joseph and Mary marvelled at the things which were spoken of Him.
Simeon blessed them, and said to His mother, Mary, Behold, this child
is set for the fall and rising again of many in Israel; and for a sign
which will be spoken against. A sword shall pierce thy soul that the
thoughts of many hearts may be revealed.

Then a prophetess also spoke of Him. Anna was the daughter of Phanuel,
of the tribe of Aser. She was an aged widow who, for fourscore and
four years, did not leave the temple and served God with fasting and
prayer night and day. She gave thanks to the Lord, and spoke of Him to
those in Jerusalem who awaited redemption.

When they had performed all that was required according to the law of
the Lord, they returned to their own city of Nazareth in Galilee. The
child grew, became strong in spirit, and was filled with wisdom and
the grace of God.

Every year His parents went to Jerusalem at the feast of the passover.
When He was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem after the
custom of the feast. When they had fulfilled the days, they returned,
but the child Jesus tarried behind in Jerusalem. Joseph and His mother
did not know of it. Supposing Him to have been in the caravan, at the
end of the first day's journey, they sought Him among their kinsfolk
and acquaintances. When they did not find Him, they turned back toward
Jerusalem to find Him.

After three days, they found Him in the temple. He was sitting in the
midst of the doctors, listening to them and asking them questions.
Those who heard Him were astonished at His understanding and answers.

When His parents saw Him, they were amazed. His mother said to Him,
Son, why has thou done this to us? Thy father and I have been very
worried. He said, How is it that ye sought me? Do you not know that I
must be about my Father's business? But they did not understand what
He said to them. Then He went with them to Nazareth and was obedient
to them; but His mother kept all this in her heart. Jesus increased in
wisdom, in stature, and in favor with God and man.

